README.md, before:

# Focus: Solid Task Manager [![Build Status](https://semaphoreci.com/api/v1/noeldemartin/solid-focus/branches/master/badge.svg)](https://semaphoreci.com/noeldemartin/solid-focus)

This is a Task Manager implemented with [Vue](https://vuejs.org/), using the [Solid](https://solid.mit.edu/) protocol to store data into a Solid POD.

Use it online here: [https://noeldemartin.github.io/solid-focus](https://noeldemartin.github.io/solid-focus)

It can be used offline, but the point of using Solid is sending the information to a Solid POD for data persistance. I've been using an account from [solid.community](https://solid.community) and it should work on any server supporting Solid.

-----

I started working on this as a proof of concept to learn how to build Solid applications. I'll probably continue adding features because I'd like to replace most of the apps I use with autonomous data alternatives.

PRs, issues, comments and anything else are welcome :).

You can read more about this on my activity log:
- [Implementing a Task Manager using Solid](https://noeldemartin.com/tasks/implementing-a-task-manager-using-solid)

Commit message:

Add Netlify badge and documentation

README.md, after:

# Focus: Solid Task Manager [![Build Status](https://semaphoreci.com/api/v1/noeldemartin/solid-focus/branches/master/badge.svg)](https://semaphoreci.com/noeldemartin/solid-focus) [![Netlify Status](https://api.netlify.com/api/v1/badges/5a7f43a6-d4cf-464e-8eb2-f794fcc804f9/deploy-status)](https://app.netlify.com/sites/solid-focus/deploys)

This is a Task Manager implemented with [Vue](https://vuejs.org/), using the [Solid](https://solid.mit.edu/) protocol to store data into a Solid POD.

The latest stable version can be found here: [https://noeldemartin.github.io/solid-focus](https://noeldemartin.github.io/solid-focus)

And all commits are deployed to Netlify, find the latest development version here: [https://solid-focus.netlify.com](https://solid-focus.netlify.com)


It can be used offline, but the point of using Solid is sending the information to a Solid POD for data persistance. I've been using an account from [solid.community](https://solid.community) and it should work on any server supporting Solid.

-----

I started working on this as a proof of concept to learn how to build Solid applications. I'll probably continue adding features because I'd like to replace most of the apps I use with autonomous data alternatives.

PRs, issues, comments and anything else are welcome :).

You can read more about this on my activity log:
- [Implementing a Task Manager using Solid](https://noeldemartin.com/tasks/implementing-a-task-manager-using-solid)
